---
title: "How to contribute"
layout: page
---

This is a <a href="https://communitywiki.org/wiki/DoOcracy">do-ocracy</a>:
  if you think something should be on these pages, put it here. If you
  see something that could be improved, do it. (Don't be afraid to
  break anything -- everything's version-controlled.)

Great! You're most welcome to contribute. Don't be shy, anything that
you consider even remotely relevant already has 1 (potential) reader.
:smile: Just get a quick 'n' dirty draft out quickly. Or edit somebody else's
quick 'n' dirty draft. And along the way, you can learn some awesome
stuff about Git and Jekyll. These pages are built from a Git-repository,
living at

[https://github.com/PGBBS/pgbbs.github.io](https://github.com/PGBBS/pgbbs.github.io).

- TOC
{:toc}

# (Automatic) Table of Contents

The above table of contents was generated by:

    - TOC-placeholder-line
    {:toc}

where the placeholder may also start with `*` and is not displayed.

# Posts vs. Pages

Posts and pages live as mardown-files (.md) in the directories `_posts` and
`_pages` (surprise). They need a header, where the minimal example (of
this very page) is:

    ---
    title: "How to contribute"
    layout: page
    ---

Alternatively, `post` instead of `page` (duh!). There's also one other
point, where posts and pages differ: the filename. For posts it is
always in the format: `_posts/YYYY-MM-DD-<title>.md` (where title may differ
from the title in the frontmatter). For pages it is either
`_pages/<title>.md` or `_pages/<title-as-directory>/index.md`.

Optional header information: `category` with space-separated keywords.

Expert note: Further possible information for the header is `date` and
`permalink`. We don't use any of these (at least not as defaults),
because the date (for posts) is derived from the filename and the
permalink as well (as set in `_config.yml`). If you ever want to set a
permalink, remember forward-slashes on both ends, like `permalink:
"/about/"`.

## Background: Difference between Posts and Pages

Jekyll differentiates between *posts* and *pages*. While the former
serve the role of blog posts (usually with timestamps), the latter can
be thought of as static (for example the "About"-page).

## Links

To link to a post, we use :
{% raw %}
    {% post_url 2016-11-03-multimedia-metadata %}
    {% post_url /subdir/2010-07-21-name-of-post %}
{% endraw %}
*without* the filename-extension.

To link to a file in `docs`, we use :

    [main][1]
    [1]:{{ site.url }}/docs/master-thesis-de.tex

CAVE: The `link`-tag as suggested
[here](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/templates/#link)  was not recognized
neither by my local nor by github's jekyll-installation. Yielding :

    Liquid Exception: Liquid syntax error (line 34): Unknown tag 'link' in _pages/latex/index.md
    jekyll 3.1.3 | Error:  Liquid syntax error (line 34): Unknown tag 'link'


# Language: English

see the corresponding how-to-page

# Markup: Markdown

see the corresponding how-to-page

# Links

-
  [Guidelines for Contributing](https://help.github.com/articles/setting-guidelines-for-repository-contributors/) (Github)
